Opti sync: how to apply `latestValidHash` when payload is `INVALID` (#2954)
ethereum/consensus-specs: sync/optimistic.md

an `INVALIDATED` block (i.e., it and all its descendants are invalidated and
removed from the block tree).

### How to apply `latestValidHash` when payload status is `INVALID`

Processing the `INVALID` payload status by consensus engine
depends on the value returned in `latestValidHash` parameter.
The general approach is as follows:
1. Consensus engine MUST identify `invalidBlock` as per definition in the table below

> 2. `invalidBlock` and all its descendants MUST be transitioned from `NOT_VALIDATED` to `INVALIDATED`

Reviewer: Perhaps we can add a sentence to the effect that the block with payload `latestValidHash` has to be marked as VALID?

Reviewer: Oh but I see you explicitly wanted to only use no valid semantics, this is fine by me

Author: Yes, I would keep it conservative as long as we're no sure that ELs support the `VALID` part of semantics correctly.

an `INVALIDATED` block (i.e., it and all its descendants are invalidated and
removed from the block tree).

### How to apply `latestValidHash` when payload status is `INVALID`

> Processing the `INVALID` payload status by consensus engine
> depends on the value returned in `latestValidHash` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Processing an `INVALID` payload status depends on the `latestValidHash` parameter.
```

The general approach is as follows:

> 1. Consensus engine MUST identify `invalidBlock` as per definition in the table below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Consensus engine MUST identify `invalidBlock` as per definition in the table below.
```

> 2. `invalidBlock` and all its descendants MUST be transitioned from `NOT_VALIDATED` to `INVALIDATED`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `invalidBlock` and all of its descendants MUST be transitioned from `NOT_VALIDATED` to `INVALIDATED`.
```

| `latestValidHash` | `invalidBlock` |
|:- |:- |

> | Execution block hash | The *child* of a block with `body.execution_payload.block_hash == latestValidHash` in the chain containing a block with payload in question |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Execution block hash | The *child* of a block with `body.execution_payload.block_hash == latestValidHash` in the chain containing the block with payload in question |
```

| `0x00..00` (all zeroes) | The first block with `body.execution_payload != ExecutionPayload()` in the chain containing a block with payload in question |
| `null` | Block with payload in question |

When `latestValidHash` is a meaningful execution block hash but consensus engine

> can't find a block satisfying `body.execution_payload.block_hash == latestValidHash`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cannot find a block satisfying `body.execution_payload.block_hash == latestValidHash`,
```
